<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns:skos="http://www.w3.org/2004/02/skos/core#" xmlns:owl="http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#" xmlns:rdf="http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#" xmlns:rdfs="http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#" xmlns:aif="http://www.arg.dundee.ac.uk/aif#" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="hypothesis.css"/>
<title>Schemes</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>Argumentation Schemes</h1>

<p>
Here we consider each cell in an ACH matrix as an application of one of Walton's <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Argumentation_scheme">argumentation schemes</a>, 
drawn from the list put together by <a href="https://www.reasoninglab.com/patterns-of-argument/argumentation-schemes/waltons-argumentation-schemes/">ReasoningLab</a>. 
Taking the Fortitude South <a href="https://dstl.github.io/eleatics/argumentation/fortitude/matrix-at-3.xhtml">initial ACH matrix</a> as an example:
</p>

<article about="aif:OppositeConsequences_Desc" typeof="rdf:Bag" rel="rdfs:member">
<h3>Argument from Consequences</h3>
<ul>
	<li about="https://dstl.github.io/eleatics/argumentation/fortitude/evidence.xhtml#shortest" class="label">SHORTEST</li>
	<li about="https://dstl.github.io/eleatics/argumentation/fortitude/evidence.xhtml#strongpoint" class="label">STRONGPOINT</li>
	<li about="https://dstl.github.io/eleatics/argumentation/fortitude/evidence.xhtml#expansion" class="label">EXPANSION</li>
	<li about="https://dstl.github.io/eleatics/argumentation/fortitude/evidence.xhtml#vsites" class="label">VSITES</li>
</ul>
</article>

<article about="aif:EstablishedRule_Scheme" typeof="rdf:Bag" rel="rdfs:member">
<h3>Argument from Established Rule</h3>
<ul>
	<li about="https://dstl.github.io/eleatics/argumentation/fortitude/evidence.xhtml#port" class="label">PORT</li>
	<li about="https://dstl.github.io/eleatics/argumentation/fortitude/evidence.xhtml#cas" class="label">CAS</li>
	<li about="https://dstl.github.io/eleatics/argumentation/fortitude/evidence.xhtml#peninsula" class="label">PENINSULA</li>
</ul>
</article>

<article about="aif:EvidenceToHypothesis_Scheme" typeof="rdf:Bag" rel="rdfs:member">
<h3>Argument from Evidence to a Hypothesis</h3>
<ul>
	<li about="https://dstl.github.io/eleatics/argumentation/fortitude/evidence.xhtml#sigint" class="label">SIGINT</li>
	<li about="https://dstl.github.io/eleatics/argumentation/fortitude/evidence.xhtml#orbat" class="label">ORBAT</li>
	<li about="https://dstl.github.io/eleatics/argumentation/fortitude/evidence.xhtml#airplan" class="label">AIRPLAN</li>
</ul>
</article>

<article about="aif:PositionToKnow_Scheme" typeof="rdf:Bag" rel="rdfs:member">
<h3>Argument from Position to Know</h3>
<ul>
	<li about="https://dstl.github.io/eleatics/argumentation/fortitude/evidence.xhtml#spies" class="label">SPIES</li>
</ul>
</article>

<article about="aif:FalsificationOfHypothesis_Scheme" typeof="rdf:Bag" rel="rdfs:member">
<h3>Argument from Falsification of a Hypothesis</h3>
</article>

<article about="aif:CauseToEffect_Scheme" typeof="rdf:Bag" rel="rdfs:member">
<h3>Argument from Cause to Effect</h3>
<ul>
	<li about="https://dstl.github.io/eleatics/argumentation/fortitude/evidence.xhtml#fusagloc" class="label">FUSAGLOC</li>
	<li about="https://dstl.github.io/eleatics/argumentation/fortitude/evidence.xhtml#21agloc" class="label">21AGLOC</li>
</ul>
</article>

<article about="aif:ExpertOpinion_Scheme" typeof="rdf:Bag" rel="rdfs:member">
<h3>Argument from Expert Opinion</h3>
<ul>
	<li about="https://dstl.github.io/eleatics/argumentation/fortitude/evidence.xhtml#patton" class="label">PATTON</li>
</ul>
</article>

<article>
<h2>Notes</h2>
<p>
The conclusion of the <em><a href="https://www.rationaleonline.com/map/ad6xt6/argument-from-consequences">Argument from Consequences</a></em> scheme is: <em> A should (not) be brought about</em>, 
and has a critical question: <em>Are there other consequences of the opposite value that should be taken into account?</em> This suggests that <em>Argument from Consequences</em> is about choosing 
the one option that has the best consequences, and that it would be reasonable to construct a sub-argument that just considers <em>SHORTEST</em>, <em>STRONGPOINT</em>, <em>EXPANSION</em> and <em>VSITES</em> 
to decide the issue. Conflicting choices are a fact of life. There may not be an objectively "best" answer, and resolution may mean simply expressing a preference.
</p>

<p>
For this example, <em><a href="https://www.rationaleonline.com/map/wseqap/argument-from-established-rule">Argument from Established Rule</a></em> is about applying military doctrine. It doesn't suggest 
that only one outcome makes sense, but rather that each application of doctrine favours a specific outcome "subject to penalty". Again it may may sense to consider <em>Argument from Established Rule</em> lines of evidence separately, and 
compare any "penalties". <em><a href="https://www.rationaleonline.com/map/96cb3e/argument-from-expert-opinion">Argument from Expert Opinion</a></em> is similar, but puts faith in expert judgement rather than established doctrine.
</p>

<p>
<em><a href="https://www.rationaleonline.com/map/tqfrfu/argument-from-evidence-to-a-hypothesis">Argument from Evidence to a Hypothesis</a></em> is relevant to any 
evidence that is collected to support or contradict one of the hypotheses in question. It is broadly similar to <em><a href="https://www.rationaleonline.com/map/t49xh9/argument-from-cause-to-effect">Argument from Cause to Effect</a></em>. 
The difference seems to be that former is abductive and the latter inductive, and the latter also requires some justification of causation as well as correlation. 
Taken together, these lines of evidence are <em><a href="https://www.militaryfactory.com/dictionary/military-terms-defined.asp?term_id=2597">indicators</a></em>.
</p>

<p>
<em><a href="https://www.rationaleonline.com/map/tsvekk/argument-from-position-to-know">Argument from Position to Know</a></em> is like <em><a href="https://www.rationaleonline.com/map/96cb3e/argument-from-expert-opinion">Argument from Expert Opinion</a></em> 
in that there are issues of trust and credibility that bear on the acceptability of the argument. In other respects, it is another indicator.
</p>

<p>
We reserve <em><a href="https://www.rationaleonline.com/map/xhxsbq/argument-from-falsification-of-a-hypothesis">Argument from Falsification of a Hypothesis</a></em> for evidence that would clearly rule out a hypothesis - which we don't have...
</p>

</article>

</body>
</html>
